(SCREAMING)
Oh, hurry up, it's coming!
Okay, breathe, breathe.
Hold on!
Breathe. Steady. Even.
Oh, my God!
Oh, shut up! Just get
this thing out of me.
Okay, I can see the baby's head.
Keep pushing.
Give me your hand.
(SQUEALS)
Don't let this thing kill me.
I won't, okay?
Just breathe.
Look at me, look at me.
You can do this.
(GRUNTS)
Concentrate on me.
Breathe in...
(INHALES DEEPLY)
And out.
(SCREAMS)
(PANTING)
(WHIMPERING)
You've got to stop that.
Stop what?
Just keep pushing,
pushing, and push...
(STRAINING)
And push! Go!
One more push,
here it is, here it is.
(BABY CRYING)
(SIGHS)
(DOG BARKING IN DISTANCE)
(CREATURE TICKING)
Here we go.
It was too salty, wasn't it?
Salty means flavor.
I like flavor.
Ah, you're just being nice.
Well, I didn't marry
you for your cooking.
Oh?
Why did you marry me?
Because“.
I forgot to pick up my refill
for my prenatal meds today,
and I have my six
month checkup tomorrow,
and I know you'll
go get them for me.
Of course I will.
I could be there and back by
the time you get to the car.
(CHUCKLES)
You should go to bed.
I will.
I'm exhausted.
Don't have any
babies while I'm gone.
(DOOR OPENS)
(CREATURE TICKING)
(TICKING CONTINUES)
(SCREAMING)
(GASPING)
(GROANS)
Help me!
Help!
Help.
(SNARLS)
(WHIMPERING)
(GASPS)
(SCREAMING)
(GRUNTING)
Dana, are you okay?
(SCREAMING)
(CREATURE TICKING)
Dana?
I'm coming in.
(SHRIEKING)
Dana?
(WHIMPERING)
Does that taste any good?
(SIGHS) Not really.
But my wife's been mad at me
for not eating healthier,
so I'm trying.
Sometimes my cat gets mad at me,
and all she needs
is a belly rub.
My wife's not a cat.
It doesn't mean
it wouldn't work.
Possible assault at
3403 Forman Street.
Neighbor waiting for contact
at the location...
You and your damn cat.
Hold on.
I'm just kidding.
No, no, I know that address...
3403 Forman.
My friend Dana and
her husband live there.
(ENGINE TURNING OVER,
SIREN WAILING)
WOMAN: Help! We're up here!
Over here.
Oh, Dana.
What happened?
I don't know.
I heard her screaming,
and I found her like this.
EMTs are here. I'll bring 'em up.
Okay.
(GASPS)
Hey.Hey, Dana.
Hey, you're gonna be okay.
The ambulance is here.
(WEAKLY) Aswang.
What?
Aswang.
(INDISTINCT CHATTER
OVER POLICE RADIO)
We've got
an injured woman upstairs.
What's going on?
I'm sorry, sir. I can't let you in.
No, this is my house.
My wife is inside.
Okay, follow me.
SAM: What happened?
FRANCO: We don't know yet.
We just got here.
SAM: Is it my wife?
Is she okay?
Sam.
Dana! Dana!
Hey, hey! Sam, Sam.
Don't get in the way.
I promise you, they're gonna
take care of her, all right?
She's gonna be fine.
(CHATTERING)
Sam...
Have you had any problems
with the pregnancy?
No, everything's been fine.
Okay, I'll meet you at the
hospital as soon as I can, yeah?
(EXHALES)
(ENGINE TURNING OVER)
(SIREN WAILING)
(ASWANG TICKING)
Neighbor called
911 about 8:40.
Franco and I heard the call,
got here a little after that.
We got an assault?
Not sure.
But the neighbor responded
to Dana screaming.
Dana? Is she the victim?
Yeah, sorry. Dana Tomas.
I know the family.
Dana and her husband, Sam, moved
here from the Philippines
because I told 'em
it was a great city.
Beautiful, safe.
Whatever happened in there
is not your fault, okay?
I appreciate that, but I can't
help feeling like it is.
NICK: Blood splattered
on the wall, the ceiling...
Open window.
Looks like an attack to me.
Blood trail...
Through the window.
It could've been how
the attacker got in.
NICK: if they like
climbing trees.
Let's check outside.
Looks like the same marks
as on the window upstairs.
Yeah, I saw those too.
Hey...
I got some blood here.
Looks like we've
got our getaway point.
Hey, fellas, I got the witness
ready for you out front.
All right, thanks.
HANK: Did you see
anybody in the room?
No.
You didn't see anybody
when you were outside?
I'm sorry. I didn't.
When you found
Dana on the floor,
could you tell
where she was injured?
She was bleeding
from her stomach.
Oh, my God, I really hope
they don't lose their baby.
Did you notice anything else?
Well...
There was this ticking sound.
It kept starting and stopping.
It was kind of offbeat.
And then I saw this shadow move across
the window for a second, but...
I don't know,
so much was happening.
If you remember anything
else, please let us know.
Okay. I've got her information.
You said Dana has a husband?
Sam. He's at the hospital.
DOCTOR: From what I can see,
the fetus was not harmed,
but there's very little
amniotic fluid left.
As long as we keep her hydrated,
her body will replenish it
within five to seven days.
Are you saying that someone sucked
the amniotic fluid out of her?
I know it sounds a little weird,
but that's what it looks like.
How would someone do that?
I've never seen
a wound like this,
but it looks
like she was pierced
through the navel
with a thick needle.
It was done carefully.
If the amniotic sack is broken,
the mother goes into labor
or has a miscarriage.
Is there any reason someone
would want amniotic fluid?
It can be used for
stem cell research.
But other than that,
I can't think of anything.
Can we see her?
You can look in on her,
but she's very groggy.
Possibly suffering from some
kind of narcotic or sedative.
We're trying to figure out
what put her into that state.
Let's see what
the husband has to say.
It's gonna be all right, Sam.
You don't know that.
Sam...
These are detectives
Burkhardt and Griffin.
This is Sam, Dana's husband.
What happened?
Well, it looks like
your wife was attacked.
Where were you when it happened?
At the pharmacy, picking
up Dana's medicine.
And what's
the name of the pharmacy?
Are you kidding me?
What, you think I did this?
Sam, the detectives
have to ask you questions.
And if you want to find
out who did this to Dana,
you need to give 'em answers.
We need to verify
where you were, sir.
The CVS on
Northwest 23rd Avenue.
I was picking up her refill
of her Prenate DHA.
Is there anyone
who would want to cause
you or your wife any harm?
No.
DOCTOR: Mr. Tomas...
I need a little more medical
history on your wife.
Okay.
(DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES)
Sam gave me the receipt
to the pharmacy.
Time stamp puts him there several
minutes before we arrived on scene.
Well, just because
he wasn't there
doesn't mean he wasn't involved.
I don't think he'd do
anything to hurt Dana.
And Dana wouldn't stay
with him if he ever did.
I've known her since
we were in diapers.
And I'd make a joke
about diapers right now,
but, frankly,
I'm not in the mood.
Neither am I.
Look, I really
care about Dana, so...
I'd appreciate it if
you'd keep me in the loop.
We'll let you know what we get.
Thanks.
I'm just gonna
hang here for a while.
NICK: No sign of forced entry
except for those marks.
This could be almost
anything that climbs trees,
bigger than a squirrel,
obviously.
Neighbor found the victim
on the bedroom floor.
Window was open, that was it.
I know. I keep thinking about
that poor pregnant woman
just lying there sleeping,
when something comes
through the window at her.
Aside from the bizarre
attack on the unborn,
any Wesen flags on the play?
Nothing, except
for those claw marks.
If this is Wesen related,
how are you gonna
keep Wu in the loop?
We lie.
Ah.
The basis of any
lasting relationship.
Hey, you don't need to be here.
You should just go home
and get some sleep.
I'm gonna stay with her.
I wish there was
more I could do.
I promise you...
We will find out who did this.
(CELL PHONE RINGING)
Hello. (SPEAKING TAGALOG)
Brother. She's
here in Portland.
You knew this would happen.
I can't do this to Dana.
What would I do if
she ever found out?
We don't have a choice.
(SHRIEKING)
I won't do it!
You're only delaying
the inevitable.
Find out where she's staying.
(BEEPING)
(TICKING)
FEMALE VOICE: Aswang.
(TICKING CONTINUES)
(TICKING)
Aswang.
(WOMAN SPEAKING TAGALOG)
First, it made sure the
woman was asleep...
...And then the Aswang flicked
its long black tongue...
...and began to
feast on the baby...
The Aswang has sharp claws.
It can climb trees, walls,
and get you wherever you are.
(TICKING)
(SCREAMING)
(GASPS, BREATHING HEAVILY)
(OPENS AND CLOSES DOOR)
(LINE RINGING)
RENARD: Tell me.
She had the baby.
It's a girl.
A girl?
How are they doing?
Surprisingly well...
Considering our circumstances
are a little rustic.
How long do you
think you'll be safe?
Until we're not.
Anyone else know you're there?
No one. I made sure
of that this time.
The sooner we get her and the
baby out of there, the better.
The only way to get to
this place is on foot.
I don't think she'll be hiking
for at least a few days.
I'll start
putting things together.
Do not contact me again
until you're ready to go
and avoid using the phone.
Good luck.
Hey.
I'm not coming up with
anything criminal on Sam.
Probably won't.
I just talked
with his supervisor
at Mahal Niyog,
a Filipino company
that imports virgin coconut oil.
Been with them two years,
one in Manila, one here.
Had nothing bad
to say about him.
And this is Dana's
list of medications
we got from her OB/GYN.
Pretty standard.
Prenate DHA.
And a vitamin D supplement.
So how did she get drugged?
Maybe it had something to do with what
stabbed her. (CELL PHONE RINGING)
She could've been
injected with something.
Burkhardt.
We're on our way.
That was Dana's doctor.
She's awake.
(SPEAKING TAGALOG)
It stinks in here.
Hey! Cousin.
How are you, cousin?
Everything okay?
Deep fried pork knuckles.
Is it really necessary to use
every part of the animal?
Waste not, want not.
Hey, what's on your mind?
(SIGHS)
Well, remember those
stories Grandma Nanita
told us when we were kids?
Which one?
The Aswang.
Oh, sure.
Scared the crap out of me.
Good story to keep husbands
from wandering away
from their pregnant wives.
You remember how
Aswang attacked?
Drug the mother, eat the fetus.
Pig knuckles don't seem
so bad now, though, right?
How did they drug them?
Some kind of plant, I think.
You reminiscing
about old nightmares?
Old, current.
Remember my friend Dana?
How could I forget?
You two were inseparable.
I thought for sure she's the one
you were gonna end up with.
Hey, she moved here, right?
Yeah.
You two get back together again?
Oh, slow down.
She's married now.
Bummer.
But we're still close.
Double bummer.
Actually, she's the victim
in a case I'm working on.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Is she okay?
She'll survive,
but, uh, the assault...
Was sort of like...
An Aswang attack?
That's freaky.
I think someone's
playing a very sick joke.
I would not like to
run into one of those.
Thank God Aswang are
just a myth, though, right?
We found a large amount of
an over-the-counter sedative
called valerian root
in her system.
That's not on her list
of prescribed medications?
She wouldn't be
taking this for pregnancy,
and in large doses,
it can cause blackouts.
She doesn't seem to remember
much about what happened.
Thanks.
(KNOCKS)
Dana, I'm Detective Burkhardt.
This is Detective Griffin.
How are you feeling?
A little weak, but better.
Do you feel up to
answering some questions?
All right.
Do you remember
anything about the attack?
I remember reading,
and then falling asleep.
And then waking up
because of this pain.
It hurt more than
anything I've ever felt.
I can't remember anything else.
It was like a dream.
Did you see anything
outside your window?
I can't remember.
Did you hear anything?
A ticking sound?
Your neighbor, Liz, says she
remembers a ticking sound.
Not really.
Dana, the doctors
found a sedative
in your system
called valerian root.
Root?
As in a kind of plant?
I'm sorry.
I just got here.
Keep going.
NICK: Did you take any, or eat
anything that contained valerian?
I have a strict list of
vitamins and meds to take,
and sedatives are not on it.
That's all we need for now.
Get some rest.
So what do you think?
Well, not much to go on yet.
No prints,
no motive, no suspects.
You come up with anything?
Well, it's gonna sound
really strange, but, uh
what if...
What if what?
What if it's...
Ah... (SIGHS)
lam over-thinking this.
I should just let
you do your job.
(PHONE VIBRATES, RINGS)
Hello?
MAN: I found out where she is.
Where?
Viking Motel, room 105.
But you need to be careful.
This could go very, very wrong.
It already has.
(DOORBELL RINGS)
I got to go.
Thanks.
Good luck.
(LINE DISCONNECTS)
Drew, what are you doing here?
You busy?
Kind of.
I was just, uh, getting ready
to go back to the hospital.
They got Dana's
results back from the lab.
Yeah?
Have you ever
heard of valerian root?
It's a sedative.
They found a lot of
it in Dana's system.
That's not possible.
She wasn't taking anything
besides her prescription meds.
I'd like to take a look
at your bedroom again.
Oh, there's...
There's nothing left.
Your forensics guys
gave me the go-ahead
to clean it up, so...
Look, I got to go.
Dana's gonna be discharged
in a couple of hours.
Hey, you don't have to be here.
I just want to be sure
I didn't miss anything.
If you did,
it's not there anymore.
Remember that Filipino legend?
The one about the Aswang?
What does that have
to do with anything?
Just an old story.
But, uh, there's
so much weird stuff
that's not adding up here.
So many similarities.
Look, I don't have
time to listen to this.
And I think you
should get some sleep.
(CAR DOOR CLOSES,
ENGINE TURNING OVER)
Here it is, valerian root.
It's a natural sedative
used in teas and oils,
but it can be really
dangerous in large doses.
Some call it nature's Valium.
So whoever attacked Dana
wanted to make sure
she was out cold.
Maybe valerian was used
instead of something
with harsher chemicals that
could potentially harm a fetus.
Why pump out the amniotic fluid
but keep the fetus intact?
There are ancient
rituals where it's believed
the health and youth
of a baby can be absorbed.
Your case could have
something to do with that.
Yeah, I have an aunt
and uncle that used to eat
their newborns' placentas,
you know,
fry 'em up with
a little butter and honey.
But I'm sorry.
This is going too far.
Okay, maybe if we
cross-reference attacks
on pregnant women
with valerian root,
we can find
something in the trailer.
Need help?
Wouldn't hurt.
Anybody else got
the heebie-jeebies?
(TRAIN WHISTLING IN DISTANCE)
Sam.
Just because you found me doesn't
mean you'll get what you want.
All I want is a family reunion.
How's Dana?
That's not going to happen.
If you don't help me,
I die within a month.
People die, Mom.
It's part of life.
The eldest son always give up
his firstborn so that his mother
may live a longer life.
This is what Aswang do.
Hundreds of years of tradition.
I won't be a part
of this tradition!
You can make another baby.
But you only have one mother.
You owe me this.
No.
I said no!
Sam!
You're my son.
I'm begging you.
Please.
I don't want to die.
This is a plane ticket
back to Manila.
I'm giving you
a chance to leave.
No!
If you don't take it,
I'm going to call the police.
Do you understand me?
(DOOR SLAMS)
(HISSING)
Can't believe Sam
brought so much stuff.
You were only here one night.
He just wanted to make sure
I was comfortable. Ah.
Where is he, anyway?
I thought he was on
his way over here.
I'm sure he just ran
a couple of errands,
because I'm not
there to help him.
He'll be here soon.
Okay. Well,
sure will be nice
to be back home.
I'm scared, to be honest.
What happened...
It will be hard
to feel safe again.
But you will be.
I'll make sure of that.
Thank you for
everything you've done.
You're such a good friend.
I'm just happy you're okay.
What are you doing here?
He's helping me pack.
Sam, you made it.
We were starting to worry.
You Okay?
You seem...
Yeah, sorry.
It's been a long day.
Can I talk to you for a second?
I'll be back.
Where were you?
You were in such
a hurry to get here.
I stopped by to visit my mom.
Your mom's
in Portland? Where?
She's at the Viking Motel,
but she's leaving.
She's going back to Manila.
Why wasn't she
staying with you and Dana?
Because my mom and Dana
don't get along.
Well, I guess that explains why
she's not at the hospital.
I'm taking Dana home.
The claw marks, blood trail.
How do you explain all that?
You're the cop.
How do you explain it?
You hurt Dana in any way...
She's my wife, not yours.
Just get over it.
Leave us alone.
NICK: "I arrived in
the Philippines at Manila,
"May of 1904, after a long
arduous voyage from..."
Do we have to
start at the beginning?
Yeah, pick it up
right before the
"and then I cut
off his head" part.
All right.
Uh... "Snuck down
the putrid alley.
"Fetid smell of blood,"
Blah, blah.
"Cut off its..."
Okay, too far.
Okay, okay.
"After the midwife was able
to quell the hemorrhaging,
"the young woman
gained consciousness.
"She told me it was an Aswang
"that had caused the tragedy.
"She had been sold as a bride,
"to be impregnated
so that her firstborn
"may be consumed as a means
"for a prolonged,
healthy life."
This is what we're looking for.
"Aswangs use their long tongues
"to inject chewed up
valerian root
"to sedate their
victims as they attack."
That explains why Dana
can't remember much.
JULIETTE: "These attacks
are often incorrectly
"diagnosed as miscarriages,
and for the process to work,
"the fetus must be a blood
relative to the Aswang."
That's some family obligations.
Wait, what does that say?
"I've also learned that Aswang
have an alternate name.
"Tik-tiks,
due to the ticking sound
"they make
with their tongue."
The neighbor said she heard a ticking
sound coming from Dana's house.
Whoa! There it is.
Now we're talking ugly.
Now that we know what we're
dealing with, what do we tell Wu?
Oh, no, no.
I don't think
an Aswang is a very good
gateway Wesen for a Kehrseite.
I'm not sure there
is a good gateway.
It's more of a hell gate.
Mmm-hmm.
We can't risk involving him in
something that he doesn't understand.
But we can't let him
think he's going crazy.
I know that feeling too well,
and I just can't stand by...
I don't think we should give
him any premature information.
Yes, premature information
can be very messy.
Hearing the truth
is not the problem.
It's seeing and not
being able to explain
what it is that
pushes you over the edge.
You were confronted with it.
You had no choice.
Hank, I'm sorry.
I kind of agree with 'em.
I mean, this is life-changing
information we're talking about.
Wu needs to know
what he's going up against.
You leave him unprepared,
anything could happen.
Look, I don't want
to drag him into this,
not unless we
absolutely have to.
If you all think that's the
way it should be, okay.
Let's go see if Dana and Sam have
any blood relatives in town.
Sam, can I ask you something?
Sure.
What's up with you and Drew?
Uh, what do you mean?
You're angry with each other.
I can see it.
No, it's just
we're both under
a lot of pressure.
Because of me?
Sometimes I don't understand why
you're still friends with him.
It's awkward.
I've known him all my life.
He's a close friend
and always will be.
There's nothing more to it.
Yeah.
Yeah, okay, okay.
Hey.
We're home.
That's more like it.
Uh, I hate to sound
like a broken record,
but any progress?
No, not much.
We're looking in
the family history.
Trying to see if Sam or Dana
have any family in Portland.
Well, I guess you didn't
come to the right guy.
Sam's mom's in town.
His mom's in Portland?
Yeah, Sam told me
at the hospital.
Where's she staying?
At the Viking Motel.
But I think she's catching
a plane home tonight.
I thought it was a little weird
she wasn't staying
with Sam and Dana.
You know her name?
Lani Tomas.
Hey, I really need
to talk to you guys.
I can't quite explain it,
but I'm struggling
with some stuff right now.
I think Sam might be guilty.
Why?
(SIGHS)
There is this Filipino myth about
something called an Aswang.
It's a sort of scary creature
that preys on pregnant women.
I think Sam could be
trying to kill Dana
and making it seem like some
sort of supernatural event.
Well, um, (CHUCKLES)
that is quite a theory.
All right, look. I know it
sounds a little out there,
but I don't know.
I just...
I thought I better tell you.
You know, just in case.
(SIGHS) So, there ya go.
That's my crazy theory.
I know, it's late.
I'm going home.
I'm gonna have a drink.
Not necessarily in that order.
(SIGHS)
I got to say something.
Hank.
Wu!
Yeah, good luck with that.
Wu.
I don't think
it's a crazy theory.
But sometimes things
can't be explained.
I just hope my past with Dana
isn't what's making me think
Sam's the bad guy here.
I think you should
give your instincts
a little more credit than that.
I'm not sure I want to.
But thanks. Good night.
I know what on
the verge looks like,
and he is definitely
on the verge.
He doesn't think
any of this is real.
Yeah. Let's hope
it stays that way.
Let's go find Lani Tomas.
(RINGING)
Are you calling
to check up on me?
No, actually I'm just calling
to check up on you
and see how you're doing.
That's really
sweet of you, thanks.
Everything's fine.
Sam's taking good care of me.
Okay, good to hear.
You don't need anything?
I'm good and I'm tired.
And thanks for watching over me.
Well, I can't stop now.
Good night.
Talk soon.
(SIGHS)
Lani?
What the hell is that?
Mrs. Tomas got here two days
ago from the Philippines.
Please don't tell me
she's an ax murderer.
Did she say she was
checking out or going home?
Not to me.
But she left a while ago.
I saw her get into a cab.
Well, the cab isn't
going to the airport.
What cab company?
Radio Cab.
I've got the number
if you need it.
HANK: I know it.
Valerian root.
If that's a drug, I don't
know anything about it.
This is Detective Griffin,
Portland PD.
I need a destination
address for a pick-up
from a Viking Motel,
about an hour ago.
(CREAKING)
(TICKING)
(SHRIEKING)
(GRUNTING)
Sam?
Lani?
My darling, Dana.
Sam called me
and told me you had
a terrible accident.
I didn't know you were here.
When did you arrive?
Sam asked me to come right away
and help take care of you.
What a nice surprise.
You didn't have to
come all the way here.
Oh, I did.
Childbirth can be so difficult
without someone who knows
how to make it easier.
Hmm?
Where's Sam?
He's downstairs,
fixing me something to eat.
(HUMMING GENTLY)
(HUMMING CONTINUES)
That's right.
You just rest.
(HUMMING)
(SNARLING)
(TICKING)
No, no, no, no, no, no, no!
(TICKING CONTINUES)
(WU GASPS)
(PANTING)
Aswang.
(SCREECHES)
(TIRES SQUEALING)
Paramedics needed at
3403 Forman Street.
(HEAVY THUD)
(GRUNTING)
(SCREAMS)
(GUNSHOT)
(SCREECHES)
(PANTING)
(GRUNTING)
it was an Aswang.
Did you see it?
Wu, calm down.
She wasn't like that!
She was not like that!
Dana's alive.
It changed.
I swear, I know what I saw!
Wu...
Nick!
I know what I saw!
Look at me.
Dana's alive.
Just breathe and calm down.
No, it wasn't her.
It wasn't her.
Just breathe. Relax. It wasn't her.
Breathe.
It wasn't her.
You're okay.
That was not her.
It wasn't her.
It wasn't her. It wasn't her.
(BUZZING)
DOCTOR: The good news is
he checked in on his own.
He's experienced
a very traumatic event.
The bad news is
whatever happened,
he's having a tough
time talking about it.
I'm glad you came by. It might
be good for him to see you.
Hey, Wu.
Hey.
How you doing?
We just, um,
wanted to tell you...
Sam's mom had
a history of violent behavior.
HAN K: That's why
she attacked you.
But you saved Sam and Dana.
The baby's gonna be okay.
You're a hero, Wu.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Well, that's good.
That's good.
(TICKING)
(SCREAMING)